
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

Present and clean design. Good job!
The three layers are well separated and the dependencies are clearly marked. However the domain layer is a bit mixed up and account mostly for the viewModel and the repository. But that should respectively be in the UI layer and the Data layer.

For this part, you received 4 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

Authentication done through email and password for now. The implementation is well done and safely.
Good usage of "local.properties" to hide the api keys.
No permission were requested for now.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Everything is present, and well designed.
The main user stories are present and well defined in both the wireframe and the mockup
We can understand the link between the screens, but it is not possible to navigate in mockup. The screen should be linked.

For this part, you received 9 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

The background of the Home screen is black, while the rest of the app is white. It would be a good idea to uniformise the desinge of every screens.
The layout is well responsive when you rotate the phone for example everything follow well and is still more or less usable.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

Sonar correctly configured. Great job!
The coverage is of 74%.
Repositories are well tested, good usage of mock data.
Overall viewModels are well tested.
No meaningful e2e test found.

For this part, you received 23 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

The APK was present and was successfully built by the CI.
The APK could be installed on a phone.

For this part, you received 7 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

No bugs found.
(Not a bug, but maybe when clicking on search, because it's not implemented could display `not yet available` or something similar, to know it's not yet available and not a bug).
If you are on the explore page, and rotate the phone to portrait you are magically redirected to the home screen.
The app did not crash.

For this part, you have been penalized -2 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

The team retrospective file is meaningfully filled following the retrospective meeting of the Friday.
Every sheets are filled thoroughly. (Be careful with the date, you forgot to update it for standup 2).

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

Some user stories from the product backlog are already implemented and should be moved out of the backlog.
However your product backlog is very well populated. Great Job.
The first epic is not present.
The second epic is not present.
New tasks have been created and populate the Sprint backlog.
The tasks are well described and the names are meaningful.
4 tasks were not assigned. Try to assign all tasks as much as possible. (Allow to correctly budget you work power for the sprint).
3 tasks have no time estimations.
Only 4 tasks have priority assigned in the sprint backlog.
The scrum board is not entierly up to date and ready for sprint 3. There is two tasks in developpement that are still from sprint 2.

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 4.55. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
