# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


Feature Complexity and Impact: Great new features overall! 

Feature Completeness: Your features are implemented on a basic level but some of your features are not implemented entirely (ex: not linked to the back end yet or there are still toasts with unimplemented messages showing)

Features value: you select the features you wish to implement well and they are usually well aligned with your app and its goals, well done


For this part, you received 6.3 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


Unfortuanately your Figma is not fully aligned with the UI of your app, be careful with this. Moreover, the "center of interests" are not shown on the figma profile screen.

Good architecture diagram! Well done


For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


Amazing code quality in general!! Well done on adding Hilt into your codebase.

We did not take into account the bug that you had with your CI and the code coverage towards the end of the milestone. Welll done on your end to end tests and on maintaining good overall code coverage in your app!

Your APK is highly reliable and user experience is great! One thing, is it desirable to be able to have multiple associations in your app with the exact same name? Also, when we click on the search bar on the home screen there is no way of closing it without having to actually click on a search proposition. Moreover on "create an event" page the toast that you have not implemented tagged associations appears sometimes but not always and no toast appears for the co authorizing associations. One last thing, make sure that your whole app is translated into french because it is not the case everywhere.


For this part, you received 15.6 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


Sprint Backlog: Good backlog overall! We did find one task: "finish event creation UI" with no description and us as coaches could not understand what kind of task this was because no labels were provided either (is it a Figma task or a front end task?). Be careful we noticed that work is not really uniformly distributed among you...

Product Backlog: your items in the product backlog have priorities but you should order them as well (highest priority at the top) - no points have been deducted for this. Other than that your product backlog is very good and up to date with your app, well done!


For this part, you received 3.8 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


Scrum Documents: your standup and retro documents are all well completed, well done, keep it up

Scrum meetings: our meetings with you are well structures and we can see that you are all engaged during meetings, well done!

Autonomy: Concerning our scrum meetings, we feel like we can advance well with you, well done! For the next meetings (until the end of the course) you can definitely be more autonome during meetings (we have not given you the opportunity to do so but we will explain how you should do it anyways). Basically, we coaches should not have to intervene much anymore. You start with the demo, then you move onto the sprint review, then the sprint retro and finally the sprint planning (as discussed, you can do the planning before the meeting and just do a final check up during the meeting so we can also see that everyone knows what they will be working on). The scrum master should mediate the meeting (as David and I were doing). Don't hesitate to ask us if you don't understand what we mean.


For this part, you received 4 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


Each sprint enhances well your app and we can see it in the demo every week, well done!!!


For this part, you received 2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 5.53. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
